README.md, before:

# Node exporter [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/prometheus/node_exporter.svg)][travis]

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/prometheus/node_exporter/tree/master.svg?style=shield)][circleci]
[![Buildkite status](https://badge.buildkite.com/94a0c1fb00b1f46883219c256efe9ce01d63b6505f3a942f9b.svg)](https://buildkite.com/prometheus/node-exporter)
[![Docker Repository on Quay](https://quay.io/repository/prometheus/node-exporter/status)][quay]
[![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/prom/node-exporter.svg?maxAge=604800)][hub]
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/prometheus/node_exporter)][goreportcard]

Prometheus exporter for hardware and OS metrics exposed by \*NIX kernels, written
in Go with pluggable metric collectors.

The [WMI exporter](https://github.com/martinlindhe/wmi_exporter) is recommended for Windows users.

## Collectors

There is varying support for collectors on each operating system. The tables
below list all existing collectors and the supported systems.

Collectors are enabled by providing a `--collector.<name>` flag.
Collectors that are enabled by default can be disabled by providing a `--no-collector.<name>` flag.

### Enabled by default

Name     | Description | OS
---------|-------------|----
arp | Exposes ARP statistics from `/proc/net/arp`. | Linux
bcache | Exposes bcache statistics from `/sys/fs/bcache/`. | Linux
conntrack | Shows conntrack statistics (does nothing if no `/proc/sys/net/netfilter/` present). | Linux
cpu | Exposes CPU statistics | Darwin, Dragonfly, FreeBSD, Linux
diskstats | Exposes disk I/O statistics. | Darwin, Linux
edac | Exposes error detection and correction statistics. | Linux
entropy | Exposes available entropy. | Linux
exec | Exposes execution statistics. | Dragonfly, FreeBSD
filefd | Exposes file descriptor statistics from `/proc/sys/fs/file-nr`. | Linux
filesystem | Exposes filesystem statistics, such as disk space used. | Darwin, Dragonfly, FreeBSD, Linux, OpenBSD
hwmon | Expose hardware monitoring and sensor data from `/sys/class/hwmon/`. | Linux
infiniband | Exposes network statistics specific to InfiniBand and Intel OmniPath configurations. | Linux
ipvs | Exposes IPVS status from `/proc/net/ip_vs` and stats from `/proc/net/ip_vs_stats`. | Linux
loadavg | Exposes load average. | Darwin, Dragonfly, FreeBSD, Linux, NetBSD, OpenBSD, Solaris
mdadm | Exposes statistics about devices in `/proc/mdstat` (does nothing if no `/proc/mdstat` present). | Linux
meminfo | Exposes memory statistics. | Darwin, Dragonfly, FreeBSD, Linux, OpenBSD
netdev | Exposes network interface statistics such as bytes transferred. | Darwin, Dragonfly, FreeBSD, Linux, OpenBSD
netstat | Exposes network statistics from `/proc/net/netstat`. This is the same information as `netstat -s`. | Linux
sockstat | Exposes various statistics from `/proc/net/sockstat`. | Linux
stat | Exposes various statistics from `/proc/stat`. This includes boot time, forks and interrupts. | Linux
textfile | Exposes statistics read from local disk. The `--collector.textfile.directory` flag must be set. | _any_
time | Exposes the current system time. | _any_
timex | Exposes selected adjtimex(2) system call stats. | Linux
uname | Exposes system information as provided by the uname system call. | Linux
vmstat | Exposes statistics from `/proc/vmstat`. | Linux
wifi | Exposes WiFi device and station statistics. | Linux
xfs | Exposes XFS runtime statistics. | Linux (kernel 4.4+)
zfs | Exposes [ZFS](http://open-zfs.org/) performance statistics. | [Linux](http://zfsonlinux.org/)

### Disabled by default

Name     | Description | OS
---------|-------------|----
bonding | Exposes the number of configured and active slaves of Linux bonding interfaces. | Linux
buddyinfo | Exposes statistics of memory fragments as reported by /proc/buddyinfo. | Linux
devstat | Exposes device statistics | Dragonfly, FreeBSD
drbd | Exposes Distributed Replicated Block Device statistics (to version 8.4) | Linux
interrupts | Exposes detailed interrupts statistics. | Linux, OpenBSD
ksmd | Exposes kernel and system statistics from `/sys/kernel/mm/ksm`. | Linux
logind | Exposes session counts from [logind](http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/systemd/logind/). | Linux
meminfo\_numa | Exposes memory statistics from `/proc/meminfo_numa`. | Linux
mountstats | Exposes filesystem statistics from `/proc/self/mountstats`. Exposes detailed NFS client statistics. | Linux
nfs | Exposes NFS client statistics from `/proc/net/rpc/nfs`. This is the same information as `nfsstat -c`. | Linux
ntp | Exposes local NTP daemon health to check [time](./docs/TIME.md) | _any_
qdisc | Exposes [queuing discipline](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_scheduler#Linux_kernel) statistics | Linux
runit | Exposes service status from [runit](http://smarden.org/runit/). | _any_
supervisord | Exposes service status from [supervisord](http://supervisord.org/). | _any_
systemd | Exposes service and system status from [systemd](http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/systemd/). | Linux
tcpstat | Exposes TCP connection status information from `/proc/net/tcp` and `/proc/net/tcp6`. (Warning: the current version has potential performance issues in high load situations.) | Linux

### Deprecated

*These collectors will be (re)moved in the future.*

Name     | Description | OS
---------|-------------|----
gmond | Exposes statistics from Ganglia. | _any_
megacli | Exposes RAID statistics from MegaCLI. | Linux

### Textfile Collector

The textfile collector is similar to the [Pushgateway](https://github.com/prometheus/pushgateway),
in that it allows exporting of statistics from batch jobs. It can also be used
to export static metrics, such as what role a machine has. The Pushgateway
should be used for service-level metrics. The textfile module is for metrics
that are tied to a machine.

To use it, set the `--collector.textfile.directory` flag on the Node exporter. The
collector will parse all files in that directory matching the glob `*.prom`
using the [text
format](http://prometheus.io/docs/instrumenting/exposition_formats/).

To atomically push completion time for a cron job:
```
echo my_batch_job_completion_time $(date +%s) > /path/to/directory/my_batch_job.prom.$$
mv /path/to/directory/my_batch_job.prom.$$ /path/to/directory/my_batch_job.prom
```

To statically set roles for a machine using labels:
```
echo 'role{role="application_server"} 1' > /path/to/directory/role.prom.$$
mv /path/to/directory/role.prom.$$ /path/to/directory/role.prom
```

### Filtering enabled collectors

The `node_exporter` will expose all metrics from enabled collectors by default.  This is the recommended way to collect metrics to avoid errors when comparing metrics of different familes.

For advanced use the `node_exporter` can be passed an optional list of collectors to filter metrics. The `collect[]` parameter may be used multiple times.  In Prometheus configuration you can use this syntax under the [scrape config](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#<scrape_config>).

```
  params:
    collect[]:
      - foo
      - bar
```

This can be useful for having different Prometheus servers collect specific metrics from nodes.

## Building and running

Prerequisites:

* [Go compiler](https://golang.org/dl/)
* RHEL/CentOS: `glibc-static` package.

Building:

    go get github.com/prometheus/node_exporter
    cd ${GOPATH-$HOME/go}/src/github.com/prometheus/node_exporter
    make
    ./node_exporter <flags>

To see all available configuration flags:

    ./node_exporter -h

## Running tests

    make test


## Using Docker
The node\_exporter is designed to monitor the host system. It's not recommended
to deploy it as Docker container because it requires access to the host system.
Be aware that any non-root mount points you want to monitor will need bind-mounted
into the container.

```bash
docker run -d \
  --net="host" \
  --pid="host" \
  quay.io/prometheus/node-exporter
```

## Using a third-party repository for RHEL/CentOS/Fedora

There is a [community-supplied COPR repository](https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/ibotty/prometheus-exporters/). It closely follows upstream releases.

[travis]: https://travis-ci.org/prometheus/node_exporter
[hub]: https://hub.docker.com/r/prom/node-exporter/
[circleci]: https://circleci.com/gh/prometheus/node_exporter
[quay]: https://quay.io/repository/prometheus/node-exporter
[goreportcard]: https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/prometheus/node_exporter

Commit message:

Remove obsolete megacli collector.
This collector has been replaced by the textfile collector tool
`storcli.py`.

README.md, after:

# Node exporter [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/prometheus/node_exporter.svg)][travis]

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/prometheus/node_exporter/tree/master.svg?style=shield)][circleci]
[![Buildkite status](https://badge.buildkite.com/94a0c1fb00b1f46883219c256efe9ce01d63b6505f3a942f9b.svg)](https://buildkite.com/prometheus/node-exporter)
[![Docker Repository on Quay](https://quay.io/repository/prometheus/node-exporter/status)][quay]
[![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/prom/node-exporter.svg?maxAge=604800)][hub]
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/prometheus/node_exporter)][goreportcard]

Prometheus exporter for hardware and OS metrics exposed by \*NIX kernels, written
in Go with pluggable metric collectors.

The [WMI exporter](https://github.com/martinlindhe/wmi_exporter) is recommended for Windows users.

## Collectors

There is varying support for collectors on each operating system. The tables
below list all existing collectors and the supported systems.

Collectors are enabled by providing a `--collector.<name>` flag.
Collectors that are enabled by default can be disabled by providing a `--no-collector.<name>` flag.

### Enabled by default

Name     | Description | OS
---------|-------------|----
arp | Exposes ARP statistics from `/proc/net/arp`. | Linux
bcache | Exposes bcache statistics from `/sys/fs/bcache/`. | Linux
conntrack | Shows conntrack statistics (does nothing if no `/proc/sys/net/netfilter/` present). | Linux
cpu | Exposes CPU statistics | Darwin, Dragonfly, FreeBSD, Linux
diskstats | Exposes disk I/O statistics. | Darwin, Linux
edac | Exposes error detection and correction statistics. | Linux
entropy | Exposes available entropy. | Linux
exec | Exposes execution statistics. | Dragonfly, FreeBSD
filefd | Exposes file descriptor statistics from `/proc/sys/fs/file-nr`. | Linux
filesystem | Exposes filesystem statistics, such as disk space used. | Darwin, Dragonfly, FreeBSD, Linux, OpenBSD
hwmon | Expose hardware monitoring and sensor data from `/sys/class/hwmon/`. | Linux
infiniband | Exposes network statistics specific to InfiniBand and Intel OmniPath configurations. | Linux
ipvs | Exposes IPVS status from `/proc/net/ip_vs` and stats from `/proc/net/ip_vs_stats`. | Linux
loadavg | Exposes load average. | Darwin, Dragonfly, FreeBSD, Linux, NetBSD, OpenBSD, Solaris
mdadm | Exposes statistics about devices in `/proc/mdstat` (does nothing if no `/proc/mdstat` present). | Linux
meminfo | Exposes memory statistics. | Darwin, Dragonfly, FreeBSD, Linux, OpenBSD
netdev | Exposes network interface statistics such as bytes transferred. | Darwin, Dragonfly, FreeBSD, Linux, OpenBSD
netstat | Exposes network statistics from `/proc/net/netstat`. This is the same information as `netstat -s`. | Linux
sockstat | Exposes various statistics from `/proc/net/sockstat`. | Linux
stat | Exposes various statistics from `/proc/stat`. This includes boot time, forks and interrupts. | Linux
textfile | Exposes statistics read from local disk. The `--collector.textfile.directory` flag must be set. | _any_
time | Exposes the current system time. | _any_
timex | Exposes selected adjtimex(2) system call stats. | Linux
uname | Exposes system information as provided by the uname system call. | Linux
vmstat | Exposes statistics from `/proc/vmstat`. | Linux
wifi | Exposes WiFi device and station statistics. | Linux
xfs | Exposes XFS runtime statistics. | Linux (kernel 4.4+)
zfs | Exposes [ZFS](http://open-zfs.org/) performance statistics. | [Linux](http://zfsonlinux.org/)

### Disabled by default

Name     | Description | OS
---------|-------------|----
bonding | Exposes the number of configured and active slaves of Linux bonding interfaces. | Linux
buddyinfo | Exposes statistics of memory fragments as reported by /proc/buddyinfo. | Linux
devstat | Exposes device statistics | Dragonfly, FreeBSD
drbd | Exposes Distributed Replicated Block Device statistics (to version 8.4) | Linux
interrupts | Exposes detailed interrupts statistics. | Linux, OpenBSD
ksmd | Exposes kernel and system statistics from `/sys/kernel/mm/ksm`. | Linux
logind | Exposes session counts from [logind](http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/systemd/logind/). | Linux
meminfo\_numa | Exposes memory statistics from `/proc/meminfo_numa`. | Linux
mountstats | Exposes filesystem statistics from `/proc/self/mountstats`. Exposes detailed NFS client statistics. | Linux
nfs | Exposes NFS client statistics from `/proc/net/rpc/nfs`. This is the same information as `nfsstat -c`. | Linux
ntp | Exposes local NTP daemon health to check [time](./docs/TIME.md) | _any_
qdisc | Exposes [queuing discipline](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_scheduler#Linux_kernel) statistics | Linux
runit | Exposes service status from [runit](http://smarden.org/runit/). | _any_
supervisord | Exposes service status from [supervisord](http://supervisord.org/). | _any_
systemd | Exposes service and system status from [systemd](http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/systemd/). | Linux
tcpstat | Exposes TCP connection status information from `/proc/net/tcp` and `/proc/net/tcp6`. (Warning: the current version has potential performance issues in high load situations.) | Linux

### Deprecated

*These collectors will be (re)moved in the future.*

Name     | Description | OS
---------|-------------|----
gmond | Exposes statistics from Ganglia. | _any_

### Removed

*These collectors are obsolete and have been removed.*

| Name      | Description                           | Replacment
| --------- | ------------------------------------- | -----------
| megacli   | Exposes RAID statistics from MegaCLI. | [Textfile script](text_collector_examples/storcli.py)

### Textfile Collector

The textfile collector is similar to the [Pushgateway](https://github.com/prometheus/pushgateway),
in that it allows exporting of statistics from batch jobs. It can also be used
to export static metrics, such as what role a machine has. The Pushgateway
should be used for service-level metrics. The textfile module is for metrics
that are tied to a machine.

To use it, set the `--collector.textfile.directory` flag on the Node exporter. The
collector will parse all files in that directory matching the glob `*.prom`
using the [text
format](http://prometheus.io/docs/instrumenting/exposition_formats/).

To atomically push completion time for a cron job:
```
echo my_batch_job_completion_time $(date +%s) > /path/to/directory/my_batch_job.prom.$$
mv /path/to/directory/my_batch_job.prom.$$ /path/to/directory/my_batch_job.prom
```

To statically set roles for a machine using labels:
```
echo 'role{role="application_server"} 1' > /path/to/directory/role.prom.$$
mv /path/to/directory/role.prom.$$ /path/to/directory/role.prom
```

### Filtering enabled collectors

The `node_exporter` will expose all metrics from enabled collectors by default.  This is the recommended way to collect metrics to avoid errors when comparing metrics of different familes.

For advanced use the `node_exporter` can be passed an optional list of collectors to filter metrics. The `collect[]` parameter may be used multiple times.  In Prometheus configuration you can use this syntax under the [scrape config](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#<scrape_config>).

```
  params:
    collect[]:
      - foo
      - bar
```

This can be useful for having different Prometheus servers collect specific metrics from nodes.

## Building and running

Prerequisites:

* [Go compiler](https://golang.org/dl/)
* RHEL/CentOS: `glibc-static` package.

Building:

    go get github.com/prometheus/node_exporter
    cd ${GOPATH-$HOME/go}/src/github.com/prometheus/node_exporter
    make
    ./node_exporter <flags>

To see all available configuration flags:

    ./node_exporter -h

## Running tests

    make test


## Using Docker
The node\_exporter is designed to monitor the host system. It's not recommended
to deploy it as Docker container because it requires access to the host system.
Be aware that any non-root mount points you want to monitor will need bind-mounted
into the container.

```bash
docker run -d \
  --net="host" \
  --pid="host" \
  quay.io/prometheus/node-exporter
```

## Using a third-party repository for RHEL/CentOS/Fedora

There is a [community-supplied COPR repository](https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/ibotty/prometheus-exporters/). It closely follows upstream releases.

[travis]: https://travis-ci.org/prometheus/node_exporter
[hub]: https://hub.docker.com/r/prom/node-exporter/
[circleci]: https://circleci.com/gh/prometheus/node_exporter
[quay]: https://quay.io/repository/prometheus/node-exporter
[goreportcard]: https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/prometheus/node_exporter
